Cats are often lactose intolerant, so stop givin them milk!
Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.
The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.
Cats can get tapeworms from eating fleas. These worms live inside the cat forever, or until they are removed with medication. They reproduce by shedding a link from the end of their long bodies. This link crawls out the cat's anus, and sheds hundreds of eggs. These eggs are injested by flea larvae, and the cycles continues. Humans may get these tapeworms too, but only if they eat infected fleas. Cats with tapeworms should be dewormed by a veterinarian.
When cats grimace, they are usually "taste-scenting." They have an extra organ that, with some breathing control, allows the cats to taste-sense the air.
Mother cats teach their kittens to use the litter box.
Cheetahs communicate by purring and meowing like housecats, they cannot roar like big cats (e.g. lions).
Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.
When well treated, a cat can live twenty or more years but the average life span of a domestic cat is 14 years.
Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.
In the Middle Ages, during the Festival of Saint John, cats were burned alive in town squares.
Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.
Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.
The worlds largest cat measured 48.5 inches long. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gc5M0aGc_EI
Cats have contributed to the extinction of 33 different species.
Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.
People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.
Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.
Cats can get tapeworms from eating mice. If your cat catches a mouse it is best to take the prize away from it.
Cats can not taste sweetness.
Many people fear catching a protozoan disease, Toxoplasmosis, from cats. This disease can cause illness in the human, but more seriously, can cause birth defects in the unborn. Toxoplasmosis is a common disease, sometimes spread through the feces of cats. It is caused most often from eating raw or rare beef. Pregnant women and people with a depressed immune system should not touch the cat litter box. Other than that, there is no reason that these people have to avoid cats.
Cats can jump up to six times their length.
The word 'cat' in various languages: French: chat; German: katze; Italian: gatto; Spanish/Portugese: gato; Yiddish: kats; Maltese: qattus; Swedish/Norwegian: katt; Dutch: kat; Icelandic: kottur; Greek: catta; Hindu: katas; Japanese:neko; Polish: kot; Ukranian: kotuk; Hawiian: popoki; Russian: koshka; Latin: cattus; Egyptian: mau; Turkish: kedi; Armenian: Gatz; Chinese: mao; Arabic: biss; Indonesian: kucing; Bulgarian: kotka; Malay: kucing; Thai/Vietnamese: meo; Romanian: pisica; Lithuanian: katinas; Czech: kocka; Slovak: macka; Armenian: gatz; Basque: catua; Estonian: kass; Finnish: kissa; Swahili: paka.
All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.
Purring not always means happiness. Purring could mean a cat is in terrible pain such as during childbirth. Kitten will purr to their mother to let her know they are getting enough milk while nursing. Purring is a process of inhaling and exhaling, usually performed while the mouth is closed. But don't worry, if your cat is purring while your gently petting her and holding her close to you - that is a happy cat!
Cats can not taste sweets.
The catnip plant contains an oil called hepetalactone which does for cats what marijuana does to some people. Not all cats react to it those that do appear to enter a trancelike state. A positive reaction takes the form of the cat sniffing the catnip, then licking, biting, chewing it, rub & rolling on it repeatedly, purring, meowing & even leaping in the air.
A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.
Wikipedia has a recording of a cat meowing because why not?
Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. In the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.
Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.
Cats have 30 vertebrae--5 more than humans have.
Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.
Many cats cannot properly digest cows milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.
Cats sleep 70% of their lives.
The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.
Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.
Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.
A cats purr may be a form of self-healing, as it can be a sign of nervousness as well as contentment. Similarly, the frequency of a domestic cats purr is the same at which muscles and bones repair themselves.
The worlds richest cat is worth $13 million after his human passed away and left her fortune to him.
Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.
The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.
Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.
Cats have over 20 muscles that control their ears.
Owning a cat can reduce the risk of stroke and heart attack by a third.
Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their talk horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.
Adult cats only meow to communicate with humans.
There are cats who have survived falls from over 32 stories (320 meters) onto concrete.
Cats can drink sea water in order to survive.
